News creates a 2D hologram from a 3D world, so fundamentally loses fidelity. Why?

Because many perspectives are distilled into one account, with a few plot points as reference.

So how to maximize perspectives represented while optimizing for coherence?

Content is inextricably linked to its creator. This means there's a firm record of who said what when, and rigorous attribution is expected of 

People can contribute publicly or privately to repositories known as channel -- some static, always-on and community run; some independently run projects with clearly defined goals.

By default, public posts are tagged multi-dimensionally on location as well as time and loosely associated with potentially related events. 

Power users will consume this firehouse and work together to sort it and verify it. Content that is bucketed has a fleeting time window to be refuted, and by the time several days have passed, the content is considered near immutable.

If something comes along and overturns our previous thinking, this doesn't invalidate the news blockchain, all the blockchain does is immutably record our present day knowledge at a given time. So if new information comes to light, that's captured and time stamped into the blockchain too. We were wrong, now we're right -- both are true statements represented in the blockchain.

Users can create special project repositories. These can be open (neighborhoods or communities that want a repository but want it always public) or closed (for when doing investigative research that requires parsing and privacy). The founder will express an aim in their coverage -- a hypothesis, an idea or just a whim. They're able to parse the firehose for verified source material, but Civil really becomes powerful when you harness the community platform. By publicly broadcasting your intent in coverage, you can solicit contributors to your cause.

To account for a lack of initial community verification, content "released" for public consumption from these repositories undergoes fact-checking scrutiny by the wider community audience on a line by line basis.

Fact-checking may take 3 different forms:
1. Disagreements over subtlety of language
2. Missing context or wrong context
3. Outright assertions of falsehoods

Because all content posted can be verified as authentic to its creator, no one can claim having never said something. So assertions of falsehoods will more often focus on wrong facts than wrong accounts. To overturn a fact, someone may contribute new content to the platform to be scrutinized by the community, at which point the group edits the original content accordingly while recording the original for record-keeping as well as the assertion and points of trust somehow exchange hands depending on who's right.

Trust disputes are adjudicated by the community with penalties proposed, debated and voted on by the community. Trust flows from one person to one person, or one person to many.

You can earn trust by fact-checking and corroborating (similar to mining). You can lose trust and be blacklisted from certain activities as well. Your ledger is public.

Context and subtleties can be viewed as annotations, and the community can vote to override the original if the case is deemed strong enough. It takes considerable but not overbearing effort to edit original content, and no original content is ever lost, its history is simply represented. There's no penalty for writing content that requires edits, in fact writers should assume their work will evolve beyond their hands and approach their work and their audience development in this way. Consider it more like submitting a scientific research paper for peer review -- where being wrong is not embarrassing or shameful, but a celebrated part of the process.
