# #Civil - News that drives action.

At Civil, we’re building a new way to learn, debate and decide as a society. 

Fundamentally, Civil is comprised of 4 key components:

— Authorship: People should take pride and responsibility for what they say on Civil, so for that reason, everyone’s file is public and immutable (aka ‘always on the record’). Accounts are uniquely tied to people’s real identify, and you only get one lifetime — so there’s no switching accounts to escape a prior posting. This paradigm lifts the bar dramatically over what’s deemed worthy of sharing on today’s social media networks. Our platform is designed for adult conversations with adult consequences. We have zero tolerance for immature or malicious language or behavior. In fact, any such actions will lead to an automatic complaint filed against you with the nearest police or judicial district. Be honest, use reason, and above all else, be kind to each other.

— Editors: Heavily engaged members looking for something to do within the platform without a story to author can become ‘first responders’ — the first people to witness the raw incoming content from the community. Editors can spend as few as 15 minutes or as long as several hours consuming the content firehose, editing and cataloging it, and driving citations on thought-pieces. While authors earn the majority of the funds received from a strong performance with the channel or network, editors automatically earn a small fraction in relation to their contribution to driving its reach. The process of editing also includes vetting and fact-checking. False information should not get far, lest the consequences could be significant network-wide. 

— Subscribers: The typical active user is connecting with Civil in the morning (First Report), midday (Today’s Polls) and in the evening (B-roll). There should be short updates (bulletins) and also opportunity for long engagement sessions (discovery). There should be a way to view the stories under consideration for research, and there should be a way to influence them with your opinion and the opinion of others. There should be a way to contribute your own content, both commentary and original content. There should be a way to vote or delegate your vote. There should be a way to follow people. There should be a way to subscribe to channels. There should be a way to pay subscription. There should be a way to direct a portion of your payment to any collection of authors or editors on the platform in any allotment you want. It’ll go directly in their pocket. 

— Advertisers: Organizations will have the opportunity to advertise goods, services, candidates, policies and more to targeted groups of members based on their policy views and not their demographics. Advertisements show up when people are looking at relevant content or conducting relevant searches. The advertisers are vetted by the community.
